From hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselminutes a
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologist Scott Hanselman. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
two 76. Recorded live Thursday,
July 21st, 2011. Support for Hanselman is
provided by Tellerik rad controls,
the most comprehensive suite of
components for windows forms and
asp.net web applications. Online app
Www.telerik.com. In this episode, Scott
visits, Matt clay and Matt
Davis at earth class mail.
To talk about how they
use script sharp compiler to
write Java script from a
C sharp source. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes,
and I'm over here at
earth class mail. I'm talking
to Matt clay and Matt
Davis, Matt Davis. How are
you, sir? Pretty good. How
much? So too bad. Give
me the elevator speech on
what earth class mail does
and why I should care.
Basically we put your postal
mail online. So we have
addresses all over the country.
People can sign up with
us and instead of getting
mail in their mailbox, they
can change some where all
of their mailers to send
mail to us. We'll take
a picture of the envelope.
And once you, once you
get a picture of the
envelope, we'll, we'll deliberate in
your email box and we'll
make available online. You can
decide what to do that.
And so if you want
to recycle it, which is
what most people do with
just about everything we do
that. If you want to
shred it fine, if you
want to open it, big
PDF, we'll do that. You
got checks in there when
you've deposited electronically. There's lots
of stuff you do with
it. And then we can
shift the stuff out as
well. Bulk it up. What
do you do when you
get Netflix? You probably get
a lot of Netflix. People
usually are smart enough not
to do that, but you
know, it happens once in
a while and they just
have to ship them out
and figure it out. Okay.
Very cool. So I wanted
to talk to you guys
because I understand that you
had a project where you
used a thing called script
sharp and script sharp has
been around for a long
time. And the guy that
made script sharp works for
Microsoft and script sharp is
basically lets you write C
sharp and make Java script.
And since I've been talking
lately and proposing these ideas
around JavaScript on my blog,
and I talked to Eric Meyer
on the podcast a couple
of weeks ago, who had
project Volta that did similar
kind of thing. And I'm
starting to see JavaScript to
I L and a high
level language to JavaScript compilers
and things like that. I
said, well, I could go
and find the guy that
wrote it, or I could
find an actual human who
did a real project with
it in the real world.
So rather than talking to
Nikail, who wrote scripture, who
writes script sharp? I want
you to talk to you
guys. So what did you
build with this thing called
script sharp? So we built
a from scratch builds on
mobile UI for a request
mail. So we are only
mobile experience in mobile story
thus far as then we
actually had a user reverse
engineer Or Jason stuff and
wrote a protozoa iPhone app
for it and stuff and
selling it. And that's, that's
been our mobile story for
the last few years. And
we decided, you know, watching
the watching user agent logs
and things that it was
time to do something about
that. So we'd been watching
script sharps since, you know,
like what 2006. I mean,
this is not a new
thing, but it finally got
to a point where it
was really usable when he,
when he added all the
data to support generics, you
know, some of the just,
you know, and that was
delegated saying like that, that,
that got added recently. And
also the visual studio development
experience has changed very recently,
so that it's really useful
and really well integrated that
it finally hit a point
where it's like, Hey, we
can really do something with
this. Okay. So Matt clay,
what do I do with
script sharp? It's a library,
it's a plugin. What do
I, what is it in
visual studio? And why do
I care Visual studio? You
can create a sort of
sharp class project hands that
will allow you to just
write regular C-sharp code instead
of having your regular most
correlate with all your, your
builtin objects you've got in
this car with Husker sharp
provides similar functionality. And then
for access to the whole
Prosser functionality, things like the
window object or other things
that he objects, you would
add a reference to a
system web, which is just
a script scriptural import library
librarian script sharp is a
way of basically declaring a
class that represents important functionality.
That's already provided by either
the browser and natively or
a functionality that's provided by
a third party library, movie
jQuery, or some other script
and scripture needs a way
to know what those methods
of nutritional objects, all the
properties look like. And so
once, once you've referenced one
of those libraries, then you
can just write your crown
in C sharp syntax and
want us to compile it.
It looks very similar to
what you've just written, but
this going to be in
JavaScript syntax. Okay. So let
me see if I understand.
That's why I say file
new script shark project. I
want to hash table, and
I want to do some
manipulations of some data structures,
but I'm referring not to
the hash table in.net. I'm
referring to some script sharp
stub. Yes, but it doesn't
actually have any code in
it. It depends whether or
not it's functionality that is
more was provided by JavaScript
already. If you've got a
scene, you need a daytime
object, okay. There's already a
date object in JavaScript. So
the daytime object that you
see in script sharp, essentially
maps to the functionality that's
provided by the browser. If
you need in a class
that is functional, that doesn't
directly map to something in
JavaScript. There may be some
script chart provided functionality for
that. There's a SS named
space that provides functionality that
you have to add in
just like what it was
at her party library or
something sharp. That's something that
I came with the browser.
Okay. So there's, there's functionality
that, like you said, JavaScript
has what they call native
objects. And then there's things
that I could map. Like
if I don't have a
hash table or some data
structure, a linked list, he
could, he Nickeel the script
sharp guy could say, you
do this manipulation and C-sharp,
and I will convert it
into the appropriate, possibly expanded
code in Java script to
do the same thing. And
then there's functionality that neither
of them supply that are
totally separate libraries like jQuery
or whatever you'd have to
have includes. Yes. And there
are certain important libraries that
the keel has already provided.
There's a jQuery, that's the,
that's the biggest one that
we've been using, but there's
been that that's another positive
and contributed from other developers
is getting our library of
right. You've seen it. Right.
Hmm. And then when I
do build, when I control
shift B JavaScript pops out,
or is this all at
runtime? Is it a build
time? And you actually get
there, there's two compilers involved.
There's the regular Batman compiler.
So you're still going to
yet a DLL that's generated.
And that can be useful
if you need to reflect
over your code, or if
you want to be able
to reference it in another
sharp project is just, just
not some limit you would
have for any other that
project. But then the script
sharp compiler also compiles that
source code. And it will
be what limits the JavaScript.
So the script, so C-sharp
to ill intermediate language. And
then presumably I L to
Java, No, actually the script
sharp does not process. The
aisle actually is a compiler
and it will be the
same pump that the C
sharp compiler is using. So,
So if it fans out
as opposed to kind of
going synchronously here to here,
and then interesting Of situations
where you use functionality, say
Amanda's in a miles, fine
with B C sharp compiler.
And then you got to
build there because the surcharge
compiler says, Hey, I'm support
this. And does it support
Lambdas? No, You can, you
can do delegates, but the
expression syntax is not supported
and none of the dotnet
for features. So I write
C-sharp that I presumably know,
and I get JavaScript out
of it. And that JavaScript
works just fine in the
browser. And presumably works well
in other browsers, but it's
generated in that it was
made from a compiler. So
I am compiling to JavaScript.
That is correct. I could
look at it as a
cogeneration step. I mean, there's
a couple of ways. So
philosophically we could think about
this, depends on what works
for the audience. And in
this case, what works for
me, because you're it, to
me C-sharp could be considered
a domain specific language or
pretty broad one, and then
we compile to JavaScript or
we, but, but they're so
similar. There's curly braces. I
mean, let me, let me
throw rocks here a little
bit. JavaScript is an extremely
expressive language and there's some
impedance mismatch between them, Matt
Davis, why would I bother
doing this when they're so
similar? It's not like we're
going from Fortran to JavaScript.
We're going from curly brace
language to curly brace language.
Script's got a lot of
fans and, you know, I'm,
I'm one of those. And
it has a lot of
really nice, you know, kind
of more functional features and
dynamic features. It's a pretty
cool language, but at the
end of the day, you
know, when all of our
service layer and everything else
we do is written in
C sharp managed code, strong
typing, the compiler does a
lot of heavy lifting for
us as far as making,
you know, just it's. I
think I saw you, you
say the compiler is the
first unit test, but I
don't know if that's your
own quote. I steal most
of my quotes. Well, anyway,
somebody said that, and I
totally agree. That is that's
the very first thing, and
it's the earliest thing, and
it's the cheapest thing. So
if there's anything we can
do to make our, you
know, to make that compiler
do more work for us,
that's, that's great. And the,
the real problem we've run
into is, and it's a
real pain in the butt
to refactor JavaScript when we've
got, especially when we've got,
you know, we've got a
strong type service layer, we've
got a lot of metadata
available to us with, you
know, so we're, we expose
all our stuff as whether
HDB binding the WCF, Jason.
So we have a strong
service contract that defines everything
and all the operations, all
the data contracts, everything that
we're using. And yet, as
soon as, as soon as
we go into JavaScript plans,
try and consume that stuff.
If we're just writing naked
JavaScript, we have to duplicate
all that stuff so that,
you know, we've got those
same types available to us
in JavaScript. And then if
we want to change something
over on the.net side, then
we just have to, you
know, we're, we're kind of
out on our own, as
far as fixing the JS,
we have to just go
assume we caught it off.
Cause you know, find all
references doesn't work in JavaScript.
Okay. So there's a couple
of things that you brought
up there. First, you said
that it's hard to refactor
JavaScript, and I assume by
refactor, you don't necessarily mean
like the act of manually
refactoring, but it's hard to,
there are no JavaScript refactoring
tools that are like automated,
like ReSharper code rush. Correct.
Okay. And refactoring needs needs
a lot of insight into
the code. I mean, in
order to say something like
extract method or promote variable,
there's a lot of context
that is required. And with
dynamic languages, it's a little
bit harder to do that
kind of gleaning. Yes. Yeah.
And you, you pretty much
have to do an exhaustive,
you know, I mean, you're
using a lot of control
app and that's a, that's
not the best way to
do it. You know, once
you've been used to doing
this in C sharp and
you know, you get all
the little nice things when
you rename it, you know,
where you rename a member
on a contract or you,
you know, delete something or
change something or add something,
you know, it's again, if
a compiler, you, you, you
get the control dot renamed
member and it just ripples
throughout your code. That's, that's
pretty powerful to do the
same thing. And JavaScript requires
a whole lot of control
app. And I don't like,
I don't like coding that
way if I can. Okay.
But then you said that,
that you kind of use
my own stolen quote against
me, but you said it
compiler as the first unit
test wouldn't if you had
used a proper JS test
framework that JavaScript test framework,
whether it be selenium or
something more formal, isn't the
idea when you did the
statement, when you said refactoring
is hard and JavaScript, I
think it might be more
correct to say refactoring is
scary in JavaScript. That's actually
bad. He's a much more
accurate statement began. And that's
exactly the reason that, you
know, our, our UI hasn't
changed in the last, Because
you're afraid of it. Yeah.
Yeah. We, you know, it's
this huge, massive JavaScript. I
mean, you know, tens of
thousands of likes, but off
script, I think, Is it
Minnesota? Here's where I want
to kinda bring it full
circle. Is it tens of
thousands of lines of script
sharp generated, JavaScript that you're
afraid of, or is this
older JavaScript that you wrote
that we wrote a couple
years ago? I want to
make sure that you haven't
painted yourself into a corner
and then you're singing about
how great it is. Yes.
So yeah, a couple of
years ago, we, we rewrote
all of our old asp.net
web forms, UI into basically,
you know, complete client side
JavaScript thing. And there's a
whole lot of JavaScript out
there that just we're all
really. So you wrote it
without tests, but you would
have from scratch. Okay. So
here's the next question. And
it's kind of all related
when you're using a, a
high level language to target
a compilation target that is
itself another high level language
of, you know, arguably strange
syntax, but still there's, you
know, there's a Venn diagram
between C-sharp and JavaScript and
it probably intersects 80 plus
percent. How do you make
sure that you're not you're
that you're utilizing JavaScript the
most effective way there's idiomatic
JavaScript. There's there's correct ways
to do it. Why is
it appropriate to take C-sharp
and generate JavaScript? And people
are okay with that. But
if I said we were
going to go and take
C sharp to Ruby, people
were like, no, no, no,
you can't do that. That's
like translating English to French.
You can't do it. You
can only go the other
way. You know, I don't
know. I think the script
surface I'm pretty darn high
Valley compiler. So you can
write, you can write crappy
1995 era JavaScript and C
sharp, just the same way
you can write, you know,
really nice, elegant, modern JavaScript,
pretty much all the features
translate. So it does pretty
well. So, you know, if
you do need to understand
what Java script allows and,
you know, script sharp is
not really an answer to
that. It's just, it provides
you a whole lot more
functionality as far as, as
far as the really being
able to consume that metadata
that you are This episode
of Hansel minutes is brought
to you by careers. 2.0
careers, 2.0 is a new
service by our friends at
stack overflow. You're probably all
familiar with stack overflow. The
online QA resource dedicated specifically
to programmers and programming related
topics. Well, the team at
stack overflow created careers 2.0
to provide you with access
to great jobs and introduce
you to a bunch of
great companies that you might
consider working for, even if
you're not currently looking for
a job, think of careers.
2.0 is a programmer profile
gives you a platform to
show that you're awesome by
featuring your proudest contributions to
stack overflow, GitHub SourceForge Bitbucket,
anything programming related, you can
even add your favorite programming
books from amazon.com profiles on
careers. 2.0 are free. They're
easy to get started, especially
by importing your LinkedIn profile.
However, there's one catch profiles
and career 2.0 or invite
only they did this to
keep out the spam and
have a high quality environment.
Fortunately, for you as a
Hansel minutes listener, I've got
your back head on over
to careers dot stack overflow.com/h
M to accept your invitation
today, once again, that's careers
dot stack, overflow.com/h M. I
hope you like it. So
Matt clay, a number of
people on the articles that
I've written about JavaScript, I've
said things like it's the
assembly language for the web.
And when I say, I
think it's interesting and neat
that you can target JavaScript,
like, you know, Google web
toolkit lets you take Java
and compile it into JavaScript.
And it seems like that
was much more successful than
script sharp was. I mean,
scripture I've had some fans,
but it's not as big
and prolific as a web
tool kit. But some people
found that very concept offensive,
the idea that I have
this layer of abstraction over
something that itself really doesn't
need abstractions. What do you
think about that? That to,
to layer stuff on top
of stuff that doesn't mean
layers remembering of course that
Nickeel is one of the
architects of asp.net, a much
maligned framework that uses things
like you state and layered
inventing. Do you, do you,
I guess what I'm trying
to say is, do you
see shadows of inappropriate abstractions
in script sharp? No, I
don't think so. We've actually,
that was one of the
reasons that we picked that
chart because looking at some
of the other tools out
there and how they're developed,
they have a lot of
extra weight that they add
to your, your resulting there's
there's extra frameworks that you
have to include that provide
punctuality to try to make
the target playing with somebody
that's not. And scripture pretty
cleanly maps down to JavaScript.
There's not a lot of
extra weight that it puts
in. There's not a lot,
not a lot of extra
functionality that it tries to
change and make it behave
differently than what you would
expect. See, that's really interesting
because some people have said,
and you don't, whether you
believe this or not, doesn't
really matter. But I've said
that, you know, a web
forums just trying to make
HTTP and HTML work in
ways that it is not
supposed to it's it's bringing
support libraries. And often you
see these four GLS, even
from small companies where they're
like, yeah, look you drag
and drop this and you
hit, remember I'm open Laszlo.
Do you guys remember that
open Laszlo was a was
I don't know if they're
still around was a 4g,
I'll write a fourth generation
language where you would go
and design your UI and
you drag your buttons and
you'd hit compile. And it
would make a flash UI
and a Java UI and
an HTML five UI. And
it was just like, what,
you know, how has, you
know, what it was targeting
each of those three things,
except in order to do
it, it brought along all
this support libraries and your
buttons had to look like,
you know, Well, we've seen
a lot of that in
the past, right? Is that,
that particular? I didn't remember
that one by hand. Are
you seeing that thing all
along? You Oracle started with
this kind of stuff in
the early nineties with their,
you know, Brad designer stuff,
you spend six months like
dragging around a bunch of
little boxes and push the
button. I like to say
that it's just like how
a Henry Ford said you can
have any color you want.
As long as it's black,
all of these four GLS
are like, yeah, you can
have any button working on
any platform. As long as
it looks like this pink
and green button that we
have standardized on Things are
great. You know, they're, they're
great for throwing together an
application, but yeah, usually the
problem is as soon as
you hit something that you
can't do, you can't do
it Right, right. Once debug
everywhere does. So what I
was kind of asking Matt
clan, I'd like to hear
what you guys think is,
does script sharp, bring along
other libraries and stuff. Like
first thing you do is
install the script sharp library
because it's not really JavaScript.
It's magical script, sharp script.
Well, there's only one pilots
are hard for is her
sharp. There's a 25 K
five and that's the most
JS in the current releases
for sure. And then provides
the necessary functionality for things
like dictionary and some of
the other things that just
didn't map cleanly enough directly
from the C-sharp to Java
script. There's a little bit
of localization support in there.
I know some of those
things now Maciel's working on
actually splitting out most like
what I see, not yet.
This is some separate files
so that you can even
have more functionality on, on
top of that, not to
pull up script truck too
much with functionality that the
model developer shirts And he's
working on this now, like
this is active. You just
said get hub. I figured
that this was an application
on code Plex that the
world had forgotten that you've
used Because the import libraries,
hands clients has supported code,
smaller things. Compiler itself is
not yet to Hold the
starch. So he's still working
on that privately from, from
what I brought us, it
looks like he's, he's trying
to handsome support for more
basket part functionality heading for
our school support for future.
Wow. Interesting. Of course, because
he chose to do this
from source rather than from
ill I'm I'm I'm I
I'd have to talk to
him and find out unless,
you know, why he chose
to compile from C sharp
source to JS source as
opposed to from aisle too.
I don't know the reason
he picked that. I was
a little surprised myself to
see that when you start
reading about conscript sharp, he's
got some good high grass
on his site and that's
one of the things that's
jumped very quickly is that
he's, he's compounding directly. One
of the things that I
hear when I hear script
sharp talked about is like,
wow, this is interesting. And
this architect at Microsoft did
it, but why doesn't Microsoft
support it? And one of
the things that I've heard
talked internally when I talked
to example to some of
my bosses, the various Scott's
plural that are my bosses,
as we go up the
Scott chain to the ultimate,
the greater Scott did you
know that they actually refer
to us at Microsoft as
the lesser Scott's. I was
at a meeting and this
and Keira, my friend was
like, okay, well, what are
the, see, what are the
lesser Scott's think about that.
So I am in that
collective. So one of the
greater Scott's made the comment
that what we do support
it in that we think
it's great and Nickeel has
it. And it's open source.
Why should this open source
people asked any more than
any other project? So my
question to you is, are
you comfortable or uncomfortable with
the idea that you're just
using just yet another project?
Or do you feel that
this is something that Microsoft
should like bring into the
fold and mess up? I
would certainly love to see
more support for it. If
anything, given me kill an
engineering team and say, Hey,
support and give him, give
me more resources so that
this can move along farther
is that Emma said, they're
trying to support most of
the language features of C
sharp. And there are a
couple of things that we
do miss not having the
support for expressions, not support
for object. Initializers, that's a
big one, Just from a
convenience perspective, Not things you
can't do. It's things you
didn't have to write a
different way. Again, we've, we've
been really spoiled with the,
the extra functionality, the syntax
available and on that for
if you were really nice
to see some of those
signs, Matt Davis, do you
agree? Do you think that
Microsoft should take something like
this in, or is it
just an open source project
and you use it like
you would any other Certainly
that, that they shouldn't pick
it in, but you know,
it's, I guess it's always
the a hundred dollars problem,
right? I mean, how, you
know, if you've got, if
you've got a hundred dollars
to spend on languages, like
how much would you put
in, do you spell out
scripture? And honestly, like other
than, other than adding, you
know, those more, the more
advanced, you know, dot at
three and C sharp three
and C sharp for features.
I don't know that there's
a whole, that really needs
to be done. You know,
the, the, the way that
Nikki has got to put
together and integrated in the
visual studio, I mean, it's
already got its own project
support. You know, they made
that so much easier to
do in 2010, but you're
seeing a lot more, how
did it work before? I
don't even, I've seen some
language package stuff. I mean,
it was, I know it
was just, you know, Like
post build steps and all
that kind of stuff. It
was, Oh, you need to
have it to work for
you. Just like you're saying
it's so much better now,
how was it before? Yeah,
it didn't, it didn't have,
it had its own little
editor window that would pop
up inside visual studio. Like
it was, it was like
a video studio add in
and yeah, like a little
vegetable Postville steps, you know,
event hooks and things that
would really, it was, that
was, you know, we looked
at it in the past
and it was just like,
Ooh, this is really, you
know, you, you don't get
the full editor experience. You
don't pull and tell us
where in 2010, I mean,
it's, it's not really, So
you literally just write C-sharp
and JavaScript pops up the
other side and is the
JavaScript any good? And you
said that you did this
for your mobile site and
I'm just, this is running
on an iPhone now. Yeah,
yeah. It's really, it is
it's, it's one, it's pretty
much one-to-one, you know, I
mean, so there, obviously there
are those few little things,
you know, have a dictionary,
some of those other things
that have a little bit
of a translation layer, but
really like the JavaScript is
pretty much line for line
debugging tool with C sharp.
You know, Of course you
can, you can debug it.
You can step through, You
can step through it again,
you know, if you've got
it, you're using the browsers
de-boning and middle students. Okay.
You're not debugging as you're
not debugging, JavaScript as C
sharp. Right. But you it's
pretty linear as far as
the, you know, you can't
match it up quite line
number for line number, but
yeah, it's pretty darn close.
If you can find you
at where, where was this
method in my original stuff,
when you can find it,
you can find it in
the jail. So it's not
dramatically changing things turning on.
Well, you can find the,
you know, if you can
find the corresponding line and
the C-sharp is, you know,
95% of the same And
is this easy to teach?
Are you guys the only
two guys that work on
this or is there other,
other people where you've just
brought in and you said,
this is script sharp. And
here's how it works. Three
people that were working on
our mobile project that Matt
and myself and a cook
Bowman, another guy. So we,
it really, it went really
quickly. It was very, you
know, very natural. We picked
it up just immediately. And,
you know, Matt was the
one that was really out,
out in the, in the
weeds on this stuff early
on. And, you know, I
jumped in and started working
on it with him and,
you know, looking at some
of this internal tooling that
we had to build the
support, that to support it
and use some of the
other things that we wanted
to do. It really, it
was, it was pretty, Was
it hard to tell your
company and your CEO that
we want to use this
open source project? That's not
a Microsoft thing or does
she know? I think she
does. Cause you know, I'm,
I'm really trying to advocate
for open source. Right. And
there's a couple of questions
I want you to answer
first is, you know, how
did you let the, how
did you make it happen
at the company legally? And
then the second one after
that will be, are you
comfortable with these projects where
they're not dead, but there
may be done. I would
feel Better if the scripture
Pilar was sitting on GitHub
that, you know, that would,
that's, that's one thing that,
that would make me feel
a little better about it.
But in general, you know,
it's like, okay, if it
works well enough, we haven't
run into any, we haven't
run into any like showstopper
bugs, we've run into a
few things we had to
work around or things that
they feel like, you know,
work out, fix really quickly
in general, Pretty smooth. And
the reason that you would
feel comfortable with that being
on GitHub is because if
Nickeel gets hit by a
bus, exactly. You have that
there. Yeah. You know, if
we need to, if we
need to whip out another
face or something. Yeah. But
we haven't seen anything that
was like, you know, incorrect
JS getting generated or anything
like that. It was usually
like a compiler error where
there shouldn't have been watering
stricter Jews about something. But,
and then as far as
making me making that happen
within the company, I mean,
the nice thing was that
this was basically just kind
of an experiment. We kind
of sold it as an
experiment. And I was like,
well, we don't have a
mobile UI. We need a
mobile UI. Let's just throw
something out there as betas.
And you know, literally from,
I think it was seven
weeks from the day we
downloaded scripture to the day
we shipped the beta. It
was really, really fast, including
building all that internal. Okay.
So for folks that are
listening, who may be thinking
about mobile, we want to
make sure that they understand
that script sharp is not
specific to mobile. And there's
nothing about script sharp that
says, Hey, make your iPhone
app or your windows phone
app with this thing, it's
a sharp to JavaScript, you
know, translation layer. Why was
mobile so attractive to you?
And why didn't you just
go and use like jQuery
mobile or write a mobile
UI from scratch with manually
written JavaScript In January mobile.
Cause actually we are using
jQuery mobile. So what we
ended up doing was just
writing a, we ended up
writing a, a, an important
library for jQuery mobile to
take advantage of that functionality.
Okay. So explain that more,
an import library for jQuery
mobile. What is that again?
I know we've got Matt
talked to him a little
bit about that, but what
did you write to make
script sharp? Know what jQuery
mobile is. Do you want,
if you want, the analogy
is probably more like it's
like a sea header file,
basically. It's something that lets
you kind of, you know,
use the, it describes the
J at the metadata of
the JavaScript library that you're
going to use so that
they can be consumed by
C-sharp so that the compiler
in C sharp knows to
fly things as good. Okay.
So let me see if
I understand that scripture doesn't
know about jQuery mobile. I
want to write jQuery mobile,
but I like using script
sharp. I go add reference
inside of visual studio. And
I pointed to my, my
C-sharp version of jQuery mobile,
not the actual code, but
the shape of it though,
the, the header definition of
function definitions, then I get
IntelliSense and then I could
start writing to J criminals.
Oh, Intel sense, like JavaScript
libraries. It's just so, But
we haven't tell us we
have that though. Yeah. It's
nice. But just having it
all, having it all right
there and C is just,
So he really, really liked
this thing. Okay. So then
met clay. This idea that
about, about dead versus done,
like for I'm still running
DAS blog, my old, old,
old, old blogging system that
Clemens masters and a bunch
of us worked on and
people keep saying, yeah, your
project's dead. I'm like, well,
no, it's actually done. And
it's working quite lovely, you
know, is, do you get
the sense that that script
sharp is like this active,
actively developed in, you know,
powerful community of people? Or
is this just something that,
that Nickeel throws a fix
out every once in a
while? And do you care?
What's it like to see
him more active than it
is? I think activities maybe
picked up a little bit
recently with things being on.
I'm not sure exactly how
long that's been out there
sometime after I started following
a year or two ago,
that shut up. And like
Matt said, you know, if
we can have the compiler
out there too, that would
make the community more active,
but I can understand NICU.
One day, he'd done a
little closer until he's had
a chance to work. There's
another competitor issues for her
more advanced language support, But
is it, why do people
want it, want it or
want an open source project
to be more active? It's
just the sense of like,
Hey, I checked for a
pulse. You just, you've already
both said that it pretty
much does everything you want
except object initializers and some
expression stuff. Why do people
want a project like this
to look alive? Whether it's
done or not. I think
it's confidence in the product.
Something that's used by a
lot of people you're going
to have more confidence that
it actually works well that
somebody else has already tripped
over and found bugs. And
they've been fixed that you're
not going to be on
the bleeding edge of doing
all the experiment thing. Oh,
we found this and no
finished product. This shouldn't be
this way. And this should
be this way. We ran
into a lot of small
shoots. Thankfully there have all
been things that we were
able to work around very
easily. They weren't quite message
showstoppers, but those are the
things that I can see
a lot of other developers
encountering and saying, well, this
doesn't work. How can I
trust this product? So having
a working community, I think
would be great, at least
deal more testing, more buttons
handle putting on more cases.
Okay. So last question. Do
you guys feel that in
a couple of years, you're
not going to look back
in this code base and
say, wow, I shouldn't have
had a dependency on this
giant thing. What about maybe
we should have written our
JavaScript from scratch? Or do
you feel like you'll look
back and you'll, you'll have
no regrets. I'd have to
look back and I have
no regrets. Absolutely. Yeah. I
think having the ability to
having the ability to use
all these other tools that
we use as part of
our daily process or FX
cop Amex, just being able
to talk about that. Yes.
FX cop, of course, being
a syntax and a rules
checker that lets you set
up a whole series of
rules. I presume you have
custom rules that say, you
know, this is how we
do things here. You're actually
doing that FX cop rule
against C-sharp that will eventually
become JavaScripts. Yes. So you're
enforcing compliance. Yes. And I
know it's easy. It's easy
when, you know, when you're
working in a big code
base to, to let things
slide and you know, there
are things that, that may
function just fine, but then
you go back and look
at it, you know, a
few years later and go,
Oh no, this is not
the way we did this.
Like how did this slip
in here? It, it just
happens. And so it's really
nice to have even the
same developer that might have
set the rule. You know,
you forget, you forget to
do things the wrong way,
you know, when you're working
in the same code of
your later. So it's nice
to have something to check
into on that. But as
far as, as far as
that goes, I'll tell you
something else we're looking at.
And we're working on actually
trying to convert a bunch
of our old legacy JS
into C-sharp. So you're actually
taking JavaScript. You wrote from
scratch and going backwards or
forwards. I dunno. Sideways. Yes.
Yeah. Just because it's, again,
that code base that I
was talking about, that we're
kind of afraid to refactor
it. We want the ability
to refactor. We want the
ability to go back and
then work in that with
some confidence that it's going
to work without like exhaustively
testing, every little, every little
Pope path and every little
corner that at least we
got that, at least we
got the dumb stuff. Right.
So separate, separate from script
sharp. You guys feel good
about the idea of JavaScript
as a compilation target? Absolutely.
And I mean, to the
point that even our UI
itself is actually generated into
JavaScript. So from some other
tools that Matt Rhodes for
this internal stuff, we were
using jQuery tableting early on.
And there were some kind
of, there were some things
that we didn't like about
it with in conjunction with
script sharp, it worked okay.
But there were some things
that we thought we could
do better. And so Madden,
we're writing some tooling around
that, but we basically took
things that look like jQuery
templates, but actually compiled down
to script sharp cat. How
you guys blogging about these
adventures anywhere where we can
point people to Not yet,
we've been talking about it.
I can give you my
blog address. And maybe by
the time the podcast goes
out, we'll actually have something
else. All right. Well give
me everything that you can,
we'll put it in the
show notes. Okay. Very cool.
Thank you so much. Matt
clay and Matt Davis here
at earth class mail, talking
about script sharp and compiling
to JavaScript in the real
world. This has been another
episode of Hansel minutes and
I'll see you again next
week.